#Calculated runs of homozygosity (ROH) from the VCF file in Plink - a robust method given our very high SNP density.
#Tested a number of different settings to optimise results (supplementary file alongside our manuscript has the full details and resaults of each run).
#Here are the final settings used:

plink --vcf Name.vcf.gz --homozyg --homozyg-snp 100 --homozyg-kb 100 --homozyg-density 20 --homozyg-gap 1000 \
 --homozyg-window-snp 100 --homozyg-window-het 1 --homozyg-window-missing 5 --homozyg-window-threshold 0.05 --homozyg-het 3 --out Name_ROH --allow-extra-chr

#Some notes on the different settings and their effects on the data:

#Changing homozyg-gap and homozy-density made no difference at all - given our high SNP density (1 SNP every 125bp)  not too surprising
#Changing homozyg-het made a little difference but only reduced ROHs slightly - so decided it was better to use this stringent setting (while not setting to 0 which is likely too strict to not allow any heterozygous sites at all, especially given how long some ROHs are)
#Homozyg-window-snp and homozyg-window-het - increasing the window size actually made very little difference to the results. Using 2 heterozygous sites in the larger window increased the ROH slightly but again these settings generally changed very little. As such, I decided to use 100 and 1 for these settings
#Homozyg-snp - Increasing the number of homozygous SNPs in an ROH up made no difference at all, so will use the more stringent setting (100). Makes sense as this settings means, for the 'smallest' windows of 100kb at this setting, you need to have 1 SNP per 1,000 base pairs. Our data has an average of around 1 SNP per 125 bp so could go higher with it, but do want to allow for stochasitisity in the distribution of SNPs accross the genome.
#Homozyg-kb - Meyermans et al. (2020) reccomended having this set the same as the scanning window size so using 100.
#Homozyg-window-threshold - Meyermans et al. (2020) formula states to use 0.05 when using a scanning window size of 100
